it's just amazing what you can do with
body breath of mine
what people are finding out is that not
just yoga but most of the Eastern
traditions he'll the whole person
instead of just treating a symptom yoga
therapy in a nutshell is really applying
the comprehensive principles of yoga to
people who don't fit in a group class
we work one-on-one and usually for some
time a flip is a very challenging case
because she has an extreme kyphosis so
what I have to do is give something
that's going to really help her but not
hurt her while it's happening so she
comes in bend over and she walks out
almost straight up and I have to say
that she really works at it so that will
give her always the best results I come
in with the question mark and I go out
as an exclamation people start coming to
yoga therapy a lot after 40 so the first
thing that hits them is their back and
then their needs you know and then later
there is if you think about it there's a
hundred and twenty million people that
are over 40 and most of the yoga taught
is for the young and restless so this is
the most underserved group until now and
start thinking about some details like
the outside edge of your back foot press
for me it really helps to open up my
back and my knees are not the original
equipment I can't go through security
and airports easily anymore and I can
hike like five miles so I I appreciate
that I can do everything I can do i just
turned 80 I can't tell you how many
people came to me and
didn't have to do back surgery because
they just followed what I said and
that's a great feeling
I took my sojourn around the world I had
the fortune to meet teachers all over
the world the one that is given the
credit of being most responsible for
modern yoga today is the great professor
3t krishnamacharya he was the yogi for
the king of my soul and he trained a lot
of young boys
this picture marks an important period
in history where Professor
krishnamacharya received his first ever
Western male middle-aged student what
happened is we started to teach
differently than he taught the young
boys this was a big deal so what he
started to do is teach what he called
Vinny yoga so Vinny yoga means that you
teach to the whole person based on their
age their physical abilities or
profession you know their psychological
outlook and that's different than he
taught young boys so the kind of
principles he started to change and
teach were things like more focus on
breathing the idea that the focus should
be on the spine and that function was
more important than form
when people go to study with a teacher
in India they really study there at
their feet and there's not much
distraction in California people are
torn here they'll go from this teacher
to that teacher this that somebody else
is in town they do that I think that's
the big difference you go to end a is
serious then
when my teacher came here he went
shopping with me at Gelson's and he said
no wonder here thank you you have such a
hard time here you have too many choices
look how many apples you have the Vic
from Europe the Yogi's feel that the gut
is the seat of health or sickness so we
often start there about you know talk
about lifestyle and I always say tell me
about a week in your life and you'll
find how many things affect the whole
person even how you walk the average
person takes five 10,000 steps a day so
if you improve that walk that's just as
important as what you give them on the
map so there's yoga off the mat you're
on the map that are all part of yoga
therapy
if you want a more fulfilled a happy
life than you should have your own
personal yoga practice and the number
one benefits of a yoga practice is
reducing stress hiding the mind that's
yoga
I want to stay true to the contemporary
teachings of Christendom acharya and
that's what I've done his knowledge is
so comprehensive that I don't think any
one person ever learned everything from
him the closest was his son but I just
took a certain area and mainly about you
know yoga and yoga therapy for western
people and that's where I focus on that
that keeps me busy for many lifetimes
you